How Democrats are absolutely crushing the fundraising game  (CNN)The numbers are absolutely eye-popping. Between July 1 and September 30, Democrat Theresa Greenfield raised almost $29 million for her race this fall against Republican Sen. Joni Ernst of Iowa. That's not only more than Ernst's 2014 Democratic challenger, Bruce Braley, spent ($12 million) in the entire 2014 race, it's more than Braley and Ernst spent (just more than $24 million) in that race. And it's not just Iowa.  In North Carolina, former state Democratic Sen. Cal Cunningham brought in $28 million in the third quarter of 2020 for his challenge to Republican Sen. Thom Tillis. Cunningham's fundraising total for just the last three months is more than the incumbent Democrat (Kay Hagan) who Tillis beat in the 2014 race spent on the entire campaign.  In Colorado, former Gov. John Hickenlooper (D) raised $22.6 million between July 1 and September 30 to support his race against Sen. Cory Gardner (R). The Democratic incumbent Gardner beat in 2014 (Mark Udall) spent a total of $20 million on that race. The list goes on and on and on. MJ Hegar, who is challenging Sen. John Cornyn (R) in Texas, collected $13.5 million in the third quarter. Raphael Warnock, one of the Democrats taking on Sen. Kelly Loeffler (R) in Georgia, raised just short of $13 million.   Even in states seen as long shots to be competitive for Democrats, the cash is pouring in. In Alaska, Al Gross raised $9 million in the third quarter for his race against Sen. Dan Sullivan (R). In Mississippi, former Rep. Mike Espy collected $4 million in the third quarter for a very uphill race against Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith (R). What's remarkable about the Democratic fundraising totals is that we still don't know how much former state party Chairman Jaime Harrison (D) raised in the third quarter for his increasingly competitive challenge to Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. Harrison's team has been mum about the total, but as The Washington Post's Paul Kane wrote this week: "Some think Harrison's quarterly report could approach, or even eclipse, the $38.1 million raised by Beto O'Rourke in the summer of his 2018 race in Texas, believed to be the largest quarterly fundraising haul ever in a Senate race." In almost every race cited above, the Republican incumbents have refused to publicly release their own fundraising numbers, which must be filed publicly by October 15. The expectation, among Republicans and Democrats, is that very few (if any) of the  GOP incumbents will come anywhere close to matching their Democratic rivals in third-quarter fundraising? What does it all mean?  Well, in the most practical sense, the fundraising disparity for Democrats means that they will be able to run lots more TV ads than their GOP opponents in the closing weeks of these races. As the Cook Political Report's Senate editor Jessica Taylor wrote this week of the South Carolina race:  "As of Tuesday night, Harrison has spent or reserved time through Election Day on TV and digital ads of upwards of $60.3 million — an amount that's sure to grow in the final weeks of the race. ... Graham, meanwhile, has spent or reserved just $20.6 million so far." But the overflowing amounts of money available for Democratic Senate candidates also speak to something even more important when it comes to analyzing the coming election: The party's base is beyond fired up about the prospects not just of beating President Donald Trump, but also of retaking the Senate majority. Remember that donations -- particularly of the small-dollar variety -- are direct indications of support and passion. If you are willing to donate money you earned to a candidate for office, it speaks to a level of involvement and commitment and caring that is the lifeblood of winning campaigns. No candidate ever wins a contested office -- or any office -- without a party base behind him or her that is activated to make it happen. Yes, Democratic candidates also benefit from the fact that ActBlue, a massively effective small-dollar online donor platform, exists. While Republicans have worked to match the success of ActBlue in recent years -- their online fundraising platform is known as WinRed -- the supremacy of ActBlue remains. And even Republican leaders know it. "On Thursday, in a conference call with a group of lobbyists, [Senate Majority Leader Mitch] McConnell vented that the party's Senate candidates are being financially overwhelmed because of small-dollar contributions to ActBlue, the online liberal fund-raising hub," Jonathan Martin and Alex Burns wrote in The New York Times on Friday. But the platform can do only so much without the energy and willingness to donate to it.  And the Democratic base is, judging from donations to Senate candidates around the country, absolutely off-the-charts engaged and excited about this election. Which could spell the end of the Republican majority on November 3.  