Ex-NSC official accuses White House of trying to block Bolton book to satisfy Trump Washington (CNN)A former National Security Council official is accusing White House and Justice Department officials of trying to stop former national security adviser John Bolton's book publication to satisfy President Donald Trump, alleging the White House mishandled classification issues around the book and forced her out for not condemning Bolton.  An attorney for Ellen Knight, who was the top national security official working with Bolton to review his book for sensitive information before publication, made the accusations about her experiences in the White House in a letter to Bolton's lawyer this week. It is the first time Knight has spoken up publicly and in detail about the standoff between the White House and its former national security adviser's disclosures about the President.   And it's yet another stinging portrayal by an official of how decisions in the White House Counsel's Office and national security leadership have often been dictated by politics.   As administration lawyers pressured Knight to side with them against Bolton in a legal fight this summer, Knight asked "how it could be appropriate that a designedly apolitical process had been commandeered by political appointees for a seemingly political purpose," her attorneys wrote.  In the letter, Knight warns that the White House and Justice Department may be taking steps to smear her and her team, politicize and hurt the book's pre-review process, and prevent information about Bolton's review from coming to light. Bolton's book, "The Room Where It Happened," came out in June. He never received the Trump administration's formal sign-off that his book was cleared for release. Knight also details how she was forced out of the National Security Council this summer. Bolton's legal team made public the 18-page letter from her attorney Wednesday morning in his effort to fight the administration's accusations that his book violated government secrecy protocol.   "She asked them (White House and Justice Department lawyers) to explain why they were so insistent on pursuing litigation rather than resolving the potential national security issues through engagement with Ambassador Bolton and her team," Knight's attorney Kenneth Wainstein recounted in the letter. "The attorneys had no answer for her challenges, aside from a rote recitation of the government's legal position. ... However, when Ms. Knight speculated that this litigation was happening 'because the most powerful man in the world said that it needed to happen,' several registered their agreement with that diagnosis of the situation."  The letter positions Knight as a voice akin to a whistleblower and is likely to have implications for the Trump administration's lawsuit against Bolton, which seeks to claw back his proceeds from the book, or in criminal proceedings that may arise.  More allegations of administration's political decision-making  The revelations also cast new doubt on the Trump administration's insistence it's wielded national security powers appropriately, as Knight becomes the latest in a growing cast of former and current Trump administration officials who've slammed the President and his top advisers for overly political decision-making that they say harms the United States on the world stage and abuses the rule of law.   In recent weeks, Homeland Security officials have alleged that departmental leadership tried to censor intelligence reports on Russian influence in the United States and that Trump used his office for exacting political revenge, such as by telling officials to cut wildfire relief funding to Democratic-leaning California.   Others, like retired Army official Alexander Vindman, testified against the President at his impeachment hearings for pressuring Ukraine for political help. Vindman recently said he believed Trump's government mirrored an authoritarian regime. And several longtime government officials have taken aim at Attorney General William Barr's decisions, describing Justice Department decision-making meant to spare Trump's allies from tough consequences and advance political wishes as the President seeks a second term in office.    Bolton is among the most prominent of the group of former or current Trump administration insiders alleging corruption.   Bolton revealed in his book and in several media appearances multiple instances where he says Trump asked foreign leaders for help with his reelection or embarrassed the United States by making mistakes or sympathizing with dictators.  Bolton in court  The administration has claimed in court that Bolton broke his contractual obligations to the government by publishing before getting the White House's final sign-off, therefore he should have to forfeit his proceeds. Justice Department lawyers and intelligence officials also have accused Bolton of revealing classified information about the US government that they say harms national security interests; Bolton is contesting this.  A hearing in that civil case is scheduled for Thursday at 10 a.m.   The judge previously refused to stop the release of Bolton's book, because the Justice Department's lawsuit came only days before it was released. Judge Royce Lamberth's decision is widely accepted as a First Amendment win.  But Bolton still could face consequences for the book publication.   Federal prosecutors have been investigating whether Bolton broke the law in what the administration says was his disclosures of classified material, and have subpoenaed his publisher and book agent, according to The New York Times and the Wall Street Journal.  Charles J. Cooper, a lawyer for Bolton, said Wednesday morning after releasing Knight's lawyer's letter that they are "still assessing (the letter's) implications for the Justice Department's lawsuit. We did not solicit the letter in any way; it came as a complete surprise." CNN has reached out to the White House and National Security Council for comment.  Department of Justice spokesperson Kerri Kupec said in a statement Wednesday, "Mr. Bolton chose to publish a manuscript that four senior National Security officials have stated, under penalty of perjury, contains classified information. ... The publication of a memoir by a former National Security Adviser, right after his departure, is an unprecedented action, and it is not surprising that National Security Council staff would pay close attention to ensure that the book does not contain the release of classified information." Before Wednesday, Lamberth hadn't heard Knight's version of the story. The judge previously said he believed Bolton's disclosures raised national security concerns, largely relying on four Trump administration national security and intelligence officials' sworn statements in court -- including from some who Knight says acted improperly -- and a review of the classified information they say is in the book. Knight pushed out of NSC  The letter from Knight's attorney also details her allegations of how she was forced out of the National Security Council.  Over five days in mid-June, Justice Department and White House officials tried to persuade Knight, a longtime career government official, to sign a sworn statement that would help the administration lawsuit against Bolton for publishing the book without proper White House sign-off, she says, according to her attorney's letter. She refused to sign it, and six days later was told her work with the NSC would end in August. Knight also described day by day her interactions with White House officials that she believed improperly deviated from her staff's recommendations before the book's release.  At one point, White House advisers blindsided her by telling her there was classified information in the Bolton book, after she had spent months reviewing it to prevent disclosures, according to her attorney's letter.  The White House officials implied her team had missed the details in its review, but Knight replied that that wasn't possible and told them their approach to retroactively classifying details in the book was flawed.  They also suggested to her that Bolton was acting in bad faith, she said. Knight disagreed with that, too.  Knight's team's work on Bolton's book was "the most intensive prepublication review process in recent memory at the NSC," her lawyer wrote. "Ms. Knight explained that Ambassador Bolton had seemingly conducted himself in good faith overall and that she had never seen any indication during their work together that he was trying to circumvent the process. He had been gruff and demanding and expressed frustration at times during the process, but Ms. Knight always felt his intention was to cooperate with and complete the review," according to Knight's lawyer's letter.  Overridden by untrained official  Knight specifically accuses then-deputy National Security Council legal adviser Michael Ellis of trying to keep passages in Bolton's book about the President's conversations with foreign leaders secret.   She called Ellis' approach to classifying passages in the book "flawed."   The passages appear to have become some of the most damaging and controversial revelations about Trump from the book.   "For example, (Ellis) flagged text involving conversations with foreign heads of state without making any attempt to do what Ms. Knight and her team had spent months doing -- carefully ensuring that any sensitive details were deleted or sufficiently obscured to permit the account of those conversations to be published without compromising national security. He also flagged passages that are clearly Ambassador Bolton's analysis and/or opinion about his personal recollections of events he witnessed, violating the basic tenet of prepublication review that a private author is entitled to his or her perspective of an event, even if that perspective is slanted or factually incorrect," her attorney's letter said.   Knight said that Ellis classified parts of Bolton's book -- a decision with legal consequences -- by looking at it as if it were a government record and not a private citizen's speech protected under the First Amendment.  Knight internally stood by her work and determined her team had worked on the Bolton manuscript to a point where it no longer contained classified details. But Ellis' decisions overrode Knight's within the administration, according to her lawyer's letter.  The day after she insisted to White House lawyer John Eisenberg that the book was clear, the National Security Council legal department told her to arrange training for Ellis on classifying information. The administration has stood by Ellis' classification decisions in court.  This story has been updated with additional developments and background.   