Fact check: Eric Trump posts video that falsely claims Joe Biden used teleprompter in Telemundo interview Washington (CNN)Eric Trump, son of President Donald Trump, tweeted a video on Wednesday that falsely claimed to show Joe Biden being "caught-red handed using a teleprompter" in an interview with Telemundo anchor José Díaz-Balart. "Unreal!" Eric Trump wrote above the video, which had been posted by another Trump supporter. After Trump campaign senior adviser Jason Miller quote-tweeted Eric Trump, adding that Biden was "not even pretending to look at the interviewer," the President himself retweeted Miller, sharing the video with his 86 million followers.  The clip shows Biden looking to his left while talking about his policy on deportations. Biden then pauses for a moment and says, "OK, I lost that lady." (The caption on the video Eric Trump tweeted quotes Biden as saying "OK, I lost that line"; the audio of that word was muffled.) Díaz-Balart then tells him, "We can talk you and I on that." If you watch the full interview, the context for this moment is clear -- and it's not at all what Eric Trump claims.  Facts First: Biden was not using a teleprompter during the interview. Here's what happened: Telemundo set up a screen, to Biden's left, for viewers to ask Biden their own questions; Biden was looking to the left because he was addressing his answer directly to a woman who had asked him a question about deportations. Midway through the answer, the screen showing the woman went black, so Biden said, "I lost that lady." Díaz-Balart responded that Biden could just talk with him on the subject. You can see the full exchange beginning at the 8:45 mark here. Below is an image of Biden looking at the woman on the screen:  "Recent social media posts claiming Joe Biden used a teleprompter during an interview with Noticias Telemundo and anchor Jose Diaz-Balart are absolutely false," Telemundo spokesman Kevin Gray said in an email to CNN. "Noticias Telemundo has never allowed someone who is being interviewed on its news programs to read answers from a teleprompter, which would be a clear violation of its editorial policies and standards." Gray said the monitor Biden was looking at "was there only to show the questions from Telemundo viewers." He confirmed that the monitor had gone black midway through Biden's answer, prompting Biden to say, "I lost that lady."  Eric Trump's tweet is the latest in a series of dishonest video clips from the Trump campaign and its allies. In an effort to make Biden look confused or senile, they have repeatedly posted videos that have been snipped, edited, or inaccurately described.  Misleading allegations about Biden often bubble around the conservative social media ecosystem before they are amplified by the President and his sons. It's useful to track how they spread. In this case, Tom Elliott, founder of the news clip service Grabien, tweeted the clip with a caption that baselessly asked whether Biden was reading his answer. Then Ian Miles Cheong, a user with a history of pushing misinformation, quote-tweeted Elliott's tweet and simply asserted, "Biden is reading from the teleprompter."  CORRECTION: After publication, Telemundo told CNN that following an inspection of the audio, it determined that Biden actually said, "I lost that lady," not "I lost that line," as a previous version of this story stated.   