From Disney to NASCAR, brands are breaking away from the president's racial rhetoric New York (CNN Business)A version of this article first appeared in the "Reliable Sources" newsletter. You can sign up for free right here. "The country is quietly distancing itself from its president." That's what Politico Magazine contributing editor David Freedlander observed on Monday. He linked to this AP story about the Pentagon drafting a policy that "would ban the display of the Confederate flag in Defense Department workplaces or public areas by service members and civilian personnel." The AP obtained the draft and wrote about it on Monday -- hours after Trump "criticized NASCAR's decision to ban the flag at its races and venues." CNN's Barbara Starr has more on the story here. Once I started looking around, I saw other "distancing" examples all over the place... -- NASCAR commended Bubba Wallace's "courage and leadership" after the president attacked him in a racist tweet. -- Disney announced a production deal with former NFL quarterback turned activist Colin Kaepernick. -- Fox News is running PSA's with Sean Hannity, Maria Bartiromo, and Steve Doocy and other stars, urging viewers to wear masks... Disney, NASCAR and Fox -- three quintessential American brands... Here are more examples... -- Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Monday, "it's important for all of us in public life to continue to emphasize that the single most important thing that each of us can do as individuals -- to protect not only ourselves but our friends and colleagues -- is to wear a mask. The single most important thing." -- The Senate's most senior Republican, Chuck Grassley, 86, said he is skipping the RNC convention "because of the virus situation." -- Roger Wicker, the senior GOP US senator from Mississippi, said his state's decision to change its "divisive" flag with the Confederate emblem was long overdue. He also praised NASCAR's decision. -- As Manu Raju put it, Wicker's comments "illustrate how there's little appetite within the GOP" for Trump's embrace "of a culture war over Confederate emblems." Lowry's POV Brian Lowry writes: Regarding Trump's NASCAR tweet, it's worth remembering that his fascination with TV ratings doesn't necessarily mean that he has a particularly good grasp of Nielsen data or is a reliable source about them. As Jason Lynch wrote a few years ago, he spent years saying that "Celebrity Apprentice" was "No. 1" when it demonstrably wasn't. In the case of NASCAR, TheWrap says he's "wrong again..." Fauci warns the world "We are still knee-deep in the first wave," Dr. Anthony Fauci said Monday... on a webcast chat with NIH director Francis Collins. Fauci had a lot of valuable things to say. For instance: "Rather than looking at the public health effort versus economic opening as if they were opposing forces -- they're not -- we should use the public health effort as a vehicle and a pathway to get to safe reopening," he said. His comments were live-streamed via Twitter and Facebook. And look, I'm all in favor of social media outreach... but let's be honest, practically no one streamed this webcast. Eight hours later, the event only has 32,000 viewers on Twitter's Periscope and 48,000 views via Facebook. ABC's "World News Tonight," on the other hand, which mentioned Fauci's remarks, has nearly 10 million viewers a night. The good thing about webcasts is that major media outlets can pick up what Fauci says. CNN has been covering his comments all evening long. But it's still a poor substitute for big-league TV interviews in front of millions of people. The White House should let Fauci appear on TV every single day... "We need to be strong enough to begin correcting the president" Dr. Boris Lushniak, dean of the University of Maryland School of Public Health, on "The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer" Monday evening: "The messaging from the White House is getting more and more ridiculous and more and more dangerous as time goes on. We need to acknowledge that this novel virus is in fact sickening individuals, and is killing individuals in the United States..."  