Amanda Kloots says Nick Cordero has suffered a new lung infection   (CNN)Broadway actor Nick Cordero's wife, Amanda Kloots, says her husband has a new infection.  Cordero remains on a ventilator and has been hospitalized for 85 days due to complications from coronavirus. He has battled a series of virus-related complications since he was hospitalized at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles in March. He also had to have his leg amputated after issues with blood clotting. "Nick is profoundly weak. Imagine how you feel getting the flu and how it can take your body a full week to recover. Now imagine how Nicks body feels, all that he has gone through and how long it will take him to recover. This will take time, a long time," Kloots wrote on Instagram. "He interacts with his eyes, answering questions by looking up for yes and down for no. When he is alert he can also move his jaw. I have been doing passive physical therapy on him to help in any way I can to get him stronger, to keep his joints moving and engage his muscles. He cannot move his body yet. He has had some minor blood infections that are causing little blood pressure issues although those are under control. His vent settings are getting better and his numbers are trending in a better direction. He is relatively stable." She went on to write, "Is this defeating? Sometimes it is, I won't lie. I wish I would walk into his room and he was able to give me a big smile and hold my hand. But instead of feeling defeated, I turn to feeling determined! I give him any and all energy I can. I tell him goals that the doctors would like to see. I insist that he CAN do this! People may look at me like I'm crazy. They may think that I don't fully understand his condition because I'm smiling and singing in his room everyday. I'm just not going to mope around and feel sad for myself or him. That is not what Nick would want me to do. That is not my personality. I fight and I will continue to fight for Nick every single day. With God on our side anything can happen!"  